# SQL - CHALLENGE - EmployeeSQL Pewlett Hackard

# Requirements
* Install a SQL database management system such as pgAdmin4.
* Download the six CSV files provided in the Resources folder.
* Download the two SQL files provided in the EmployeeSQL folder.

## Data Modelling
This process involved inspect the CSV files contained in the "Resources" folder within the repository, after which we sketched an ERD Digram of the relevant tables creating a sketch of the files relationship diagram.

The ERD sketch can be identified in "ERD_EmployeeSQL_Diagram" file within the EmployeeSQL folder. 

## Data Engineering
Using the base CSV files, we were required to create the relevant table schema for each of the six CSV files. Within this process we were required to specify the data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints. After creating the relevant schema we then imported each CSV file into the corresponding SQL table.

The SQL analysis script can be identified in "DataEngineering.sql" file within the EmployeeSQL folder. 

## Data Analysis
Within this section we were requied to write SQL queries to answer the following questions:
1) List the employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee.
2) List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.
3) List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name.
4) List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
5) List the first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B.
6) List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.
7) List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
8) List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name).

The SQL analysis script can be identified in "DataAnalysis.sql" file within the EmployeeSQL folder. 

## References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
